README.md, before:

# Code 301 Final Project: Goya
Final Project Repo

## Version
1.0.0 

## Project title
Goya - Live your story

The name Goya comes from the Urdu language. It refers to the suspension of disbelief that happens when fantasy is so realistic that it temporarily becomes reality. It's commonly associated with powerful storytelling and is included in the world's 20 most beautiful, untranslateable words. 

## Problem Domain
Our concept is to break through the language barriers for travelers and those living in a place where they are new to the common tongue. The app allows the user to communicate across any language currently supported by Google's Translate API.

## Build status
### Planning phase

#### User Stories
"As a traveler, I want to be able to translate what I am saying so that another person can see what I said translated into their language."
"As a user, I want to be able to save past translations so that I can see them later."
"As a user, I want to be able to play back past translations so I can 'speak' to others in their language"

#### Wireframes
----------------- Each page or view of your application should have its own wireframe and some pages may have multiple wireframes to illustrate changes based on user interaction.

#### Code of Conduct and Conflict Plan
- We will strive to create an open and welcoming environment where participation and contribution to the project and general community is a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.
- We will use welcoming and inclusive language, be respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences, gracefully accept constructive criticism, focus on what is best for the team and the community, and show empathy towards others.
- We will not tolerate unwelcome sexual attention or advances, trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks, public or private harassment, publishing others’ private information, or other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in an academic and professional setting.
- We agree to work as a team to hold each other accountable to these responsibilities and take appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behavior. We will not retaliate against those who have a differing opinion or those who hold others accountable.
- We will work as a team to support each individual reaching their full potential.
- If disagreements arise in the team we will make sure that everyone has a chance to state their opinion and be heard, not spoken over or dismissed, and discuss possible solutions as a team. If attempts to resolve the conflict is unsuccessful and a solution cannot be agreed upon we will escalate the discussion by asking one of the TAs or the instructor to mediate.
- If a team member is not adequately contributing we will raise the concern by speaking with them individually or as a team. We will focus on how we can help them contribute more. Are they struggling with something that is keeping them from moving forward? Are there other areas of the project they feel more comfortable contributing to? Consider the needs of the individual as well as the team.

#### Communication Plan
- We will strive to make sure the team members communicate with each other regularly to keep the team running at the same pace and that everyone feels comfortable speaking up.
- We will you communicate after hours through Slack. If there is any work done (coding, Trello, etc) the team member will send a summary of what was done so everyone is on the same page and we can keep the documentation updated.
- We will listen to hear, not to reply, to ensure everyone's voice is heard. We will also make sure each team member agrees to the decisions made in the project before they are acted upon.
- We will create a safe environment where everyone feels comfortable speaking up by following our code of conduct and keeping each other accountable.

#### Project Scope
 ----------------- MVP
 ----------------- Stretch

### Project Organization
 - Kanban board on Trello

-----------------Update tree once app is built

├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── public
├── server.js
└── views
    ├── index.ejs
    ├── pages
    │   ├── books
    │   │   ├── new.ejs
    │   │   └── show.ejs
    │   ├── error.ejs
    │   └── searches
    │       ├── new.ejs
    │       └── show.ejs
    └── partials
        ├── footer.ejs
        ├── head.ejs
        └── header.ejs

#### Daily Team Workflow
Day 1: Brainstorm project scope, build organization and repo on Github, declare MVP, designate stretch goals, create basic wireframes, start writing user stories based on MVP, build repo branch structure, deploy on Heroku and complete proof of life check, decide on app name, built About Me page with content, draft ReadMe, start code in app.js, base.css, modules.css, and templates (ejs), created Trello team and board, build database structure, write and agree on code of conduct, conflict and communication plans.

Day 2: 

Day 3: 

Day 4: 

Day 5: Presentation Day!

## Code style
Code style is strict JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, EJS

## API Reference
Google Cloud Translation API: https://cloud.google.com/translate/

## Database 
- Clearly defined database schemas

## Tests
No tests at this time. 
- Clearly defined API endpoints with sample responses

## Deployment
https://goya-translation.herokuapp.com/

## How to use?
(give examples of use)
- Instructions that the user may need to follow in order to get your application up and running on their own computer
- A list of any libraries, frameworks, or packages that your application requires in order to properly function

## Contribute
No contribution guidelines at this point. 

## Credits
Nadya Ilinskaya
Quang Nguyen
Sam Gnuschke
Sarah Fisher 

* https://meyerweb.com/eric/tools/css/reset/ CSS Reset Tool
* https://nodejs.org/en/
* 

## License
MIT © Code Fellows
![CF](https://i.imgur.com/7v5ASc8.png)

Commit message:

Local storage started and some ReadMe updates

README.md, after:

# Code 301 Final Project: Goya
Final Project Repo

## Version
1.0.0 

## Project title
Goya - Live your story

The name Goya comes from the Urdu language. It refers to the suspension of disbelief that happens when fantasy is so realistic that it temporarily becomes reality. It's commonly associated with powerful storytelling and is included in the world's 20 most beautiful, untranslateable words. 

## Problem Domain
Our concept is to break through the language barriers for travelers and those living in a place where they are new to the common tongue. The app allows the user to communicate across any language currently supported by Google's Translate API.

## Build status
### Planning phase

#### User Stories
"As a traveler, I want to be able to translate what I am saying so that another person can see what I said translated into their language."
"As a user, I want to be able to save past translations so that I can see them later."
"As a user, I want to be able to play back past translations so I can 'speak' to others in their language."
"As a developer, I want the user to have a comfortable experience with the application."
"As a developer, I want the application to be mobile first yet capable of being used from a computer that has a microphone."
"As a developer, I want to save the user information so that individuals can have their own saved translations."
"As a user, I want to be able to access the 'How to use' information in multiple languages."

#### Wireframes
![alt text](/assets/Wireframe-Draft)

#### Code of Conduct and Conflict Plan
- We will strive to create an open and welcoming environment where participation and contribution to the project and general community is a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.
- We will use welcoming and inclusive language, be respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences, gracefully accept constructive criticism, focus on what is best for the team and the community, and show empathy towards others.
- We will not tolerate unwelcome sexual attention or advances, trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks, public or private harassment, publishing others’ private information, or other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in an academic and professional setting.
- We agree to work as a team to hold each other accountable to these responsibilities and take appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behavior. We will not retaliate against those who have a differing opinion or those who hold others accountable.
- We will work as a team to support each individual reaching their full potential.
- If disagreements arise in the team we will make sure that everyone has a chance to state their opinion and be heard, not spoken over or dismissed, and discuss possible solutions as a team. If attempts to resolve the conflict is unsuccessful and a solution cannot be agreed upon we will escalate the discussion by asking one of the TAs or the instructor to mediate.
- If a team member is not adequately contributing we will raise the concern by speaking with them individually or as a team. We will focus on how we can help them contribute more. Are they struggling with something that is keeping them from moving forward? Are there other areas of the project they feel more comfortable contributing to? Consider the needs of the individual as well as the team.

#### Communication Plan
- We will strive to make sure the team members communicate with each other regularly to keep the team running at the same pace and that everyone feels comfortable speaking up.
- We will you communicate after hours through Slack. If there is any work done (coding, Trello, etc) the team member will send a summary of what was done so everyone is on the same page and we can keep the documentation updated.
- We will listen to hear, not to reply, to ensure everyone's voice is heard. We will also make sure each team member agrees to the decisions made in the project before they are acted upon.
- We will create a safe environment where everyone feels comfortable speaking up by following our code of conduct and keeping each other accountable.

#### Project Scope
 ----------------- MVP
 ----------------- Stretch

### Project Organization
 - Kanban board on Trello

-----------------Update tree once app is built

├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── public
|   ├── assets
|   ├── styles
|   |   ├── base.css
|   |   ├── layout.css
|   |   └── reset.css
|   └── js
|       └── app.js
├── data
|   └── schema.sql
├── server.js
└── views
    ├── index.ejs
    ├── about-us.ejs
    ├── footer.ejs
    ├── head.ejs
    ├── how-to.ejs
    ├── savedPhrases.ejs
    └── header.ejs

#### Daily Team Workflow
Day 1: Brainstorm project scope, build organization and repo on Github, declare MVP, designate stretch goals, create basic wireframes, start writing user stories based on MVP, build repo branch structure, deploy on Heroku and complete proof of life check, decide on app name, built About Me page with content, draft ReadMe, start code in app.js, base.css, modules.css, and templates (ejs), created Trello team and board, build database structure, write and agree on code of conduct, conflict and communication plans.

Day 2: 

Day 3: 

Day 4: 

Day 5: Presentation Day!

## Code style
Code style is strict JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, EJS

## API Reference
Google Cloud Translation API: https://cloud.google.com/translate/

## Database 
- Clearly defined database schemas

## Tests
No tests at this time. 
- Clearly defined API endpoints with sample responses

## Deployment
https://goya-translation.herokuapp.com/

## How to use?
(give examples of use)
- Instructions that the user may need to follow in order to get your application up and running on their own computer
- A list of any libraries, frameworks, or packages that your application requires in order to properly function

## Contribute
No contribution guidelines at this point. 

## Credits
Nadya Ilinskaya
Quang Nguyen
Sam Gnuschke
Sarah Fisher 

* https://meyerweb.com/eric/tools/css/reset/ CSS Reset Tool
* https://nodejs.org/en/
* 

## License
MIT © Code Fellows
![CF](https://i.imgur.com/7v5ASc8.png)
